---
title: "Chapter 9"
date: 2024-09-12
draft: false
description: ""
summary: "Preachers."
tags: []
categories: []
---

110. Preaching the word of God, after the example of Christ, the Master of life, is one of the most honourable, useful, exalted and divine duties in the Church of God, on the fulfilment of which the salvation of mankind largely depends. We therefore ordain that no one shall be promoted to the office of preaching unless he has been examined and approved, as the Rule desires, by the General Chapter or by the Father Vicar General. Nor shall the office of preacher be conferred upon anyone unless it is evident that he is of holy and exemplary life, of clear and mature judgement, of strong and ardent will, because knowledge and eloquence without charity tend in no way to edification but often to destruction. Let Superiors take diligent care that in granting faculties for preaching they be not acceptors of persons, nor swayed by human friendship or favour, but have in view simply and solely God’s honour, make it their aim to have a few virtuous preachers, rather than many useless ones. Thus they will follow the example of Christ, the Supreme wisdom, Who from the whole Jewish nation chose only twelve Apostles and seventy two Disciples, and that after long prayer.

111. In addition it is ordained that the preachers refrain from introducing into their sermons trifles, foolish stories, useless questions, curious and far-fetched opinions, but after the example of the Apostle St Paul, let them preach Christ crucified, in Whom are all the treasures of wisdom and the knowledge of God. This is that Divine Wisdom which St Paul preached to the perfect after he had become a Christian; for as a Hebrew youth, he thought as a child, and understood as a child, and spoke as a child, of the shadows and types of the Old Testament. Let the preachers, besides quoting the holy Doctors, chiefly cite Christ, Whose authority carries more weight than that of all other persons and reasons in the world.

112. The preachers shall abstain from difficult and affected phrases as unworthy of Him Who died naked and humble on the Cross. Their language shall be plain, pure, simple and humble, withal holy, full of charity and aflame with zeal, after the example of St Paul, the Vessel of Election, who preached not in loftiness of speech and human eloquence, but in the power of the Holy Ghost. The preachers, therefore, are exhorted to do their utmost to imprint the Blessed Jesus on their own hearts and give Him peaceable possession of their souls, so that it may be He Who moves them to speak from the fullness of love, not merely by word but much more by their deeds, after the example of St Paul, the Doctor of the Gentiles, who did not dare to preach anything to others until Christ had enabled him first to practice it. So, also, did Jesus, our most perfect Master teach us not only by words, but by deeds. They are great in the kingdom of heaven who first do, and then teach and preach to others.

113. The preachers should not think that they fulfil their duty by preaching during Advent and Lent. Let them assiduously endeavour to preach at least on all Feastdays, after the example of Christ, mirror of all perfection, Who passed through Judea, Samaria and Galilee, preaching in the cities and villages, at times even speaking to one, as in the case of the Samaritan woman.

114. And while preaching to others, should they feel the spirit weakening, let them return to solitude, and there let them remain, till once again, full of God, the impulse of the Holy Spirit may move them to go forth to spread divine grace over the world. Thus engaged, now like Martha, now like Mary, they shall follow Christ in His mixed life, Who, after praying on the mountain, went down to the temple to preach, nay, descended from Heaven to earth to save souls.

115. We strictly forbid preachers to receive meals. They shall live like poor men and mendicants, as they have voluntarily promised for the love of Christ. Above all, let them guard against every kind of avarice, so that preaching Jesus Christ freely and sincerely, they may gather fruit in greater abundance. When they preach, let them not beg either for themselves of for their brethren; so that according to the teaching of the Apostle, all may know they seek not their own interests, but those of Jesus Christ.

116. Since he who does not know how to read and imitate Christ, the Book of Life, cannot have the learning necessary for preaching, preachers are forbidden to carry with them many books, so that they find all things in Christ.

117. In order that the sacred office of preaching, so precious and most pleasing to Christ, our God, Who has proved it by preaching the most salutary evangelical doctrine with so much ardour of divine charity for the welfare of our souls; in order also the better to impress on the hearts of preachers the norm and method they are to follow in the worthy exercise of preaching Christ Crucified and the kingdom of heaven, in effectively procuring the conversion and the spiritual welfare of the faithful, by reproducing, as it were, and implanting Christ in their souls, we counsel and command them to use the Sacred Scriptures, especially the New Testament and in particular the Gospels, so that being evangelical preachers, we may fashion an evangelical people.

118. Let them refrain from profane and useless questions and opinions, and such theories and subtleties as few understand. But after the example of the most holy Precursor, John the Baptist, the most holy Apostles and other saintly preachers aflame with divine love, nay after the example of our most sweet Saviour Himself, let them preach: “Do penance for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.” As our Seraphic Father exhorts us in the Rule, let them discourse of vices and virtues, of punishment and glory, in few words, not desiring or seeking anything but the glory of God and the salvation of souls redeemed by the most precious blood of the spotless Lamb, Jesus Christ.

119. Let their discourses be well considered and so discreet as not to point to any particular person, because, as the glorious St Jerome says, a general discourse will offend no one. Let them indeed denounce every vice, but glorify the image of the Creator in the creature. And as our Seraphic Father exhorts us in his Testament let them endeavour to respect, love and honour all priests, bishops, cardinals, and above all the Holy and Supreme Pontiff, Vicar of Christ on earth, the Supreme Head, Father and Shepherd of all Christians and of the entire Church Militant. Let them also love and honour all other ecclesiastics who live according to the manner of the Holy Roman Church and are humbly subject to the Head, Father and Lord, the Supreme Pontiff. Let all the Friars bear in mind the admonition left by our Seraphic Father in his Testament, that all theologians and those who minister to us the Most Holy and Divine Word, we must honour and revere as those who minister to us spirit and life.

120. And in order that, while preaching to others, the preachers themselves may not become castaways, they shall sometimes leave the multitude, and, with our most sweet Saviour, ascend the mountain of prayer and contemplation. There let them endeavour to become inflamed as the Seraphim, with divine love, so that, all aflame themselves, they may enkindle others.

121. As mentioned above it is enjoined on preachers not to carry with them any books, so that they may attentively study the most excellent book, the Cross. And as it was always the intention of our beloved Father that the friars have the necessary books in common and not individually, and the better to observe poverty and to remove from the hearts of the brethren all feeling of attachment, it is ordained that in each House there shall be a small room where the Holy Scriptures and some of the Holy Doctors shall be kept. But books that are really useless and make a man worldly rather than Christian (as stated above in the first chapter) shall not be kept in our houses. Let such as are found be disposed of according to the injunction of the Vicars General or Provincial.

122. And since in him who would preach worthily and in a befitting manner there is required, together with a religious and exemplary life, some knowledge of the Holy Scriptures, which cannot be acquired except by literary study; lest so noble and useful a function as preaching should, to the greater loss of souls, decline in our Congregation, we enact that there shall be devout and holy studies, abounding in charity and humility, both for the humanities and sacred letters. To these studies only such Friars shall be admitted, as the Vicar Provincial and the Definitors judge to be distinguished for fervent charity, praiseworthy behaviour, humble and holy conversation, and at the same time, be so suitable for studies that they may afterwards by their life and doctrine, be useful and productive in the House of the Lord.

123. Let the students not seek to attain that knowledge which only puffs up, but let them endeavour to acquire the illuminating and enkindling charity of Christ, which quickens the soul. They should not be so absorbed in literary pursuits as to neglect the study of holy prayer; otherwise they would act against the express wish of our Seraphic Father, who desired that prayer should never be omitted for any study whatever. The better to acquire the spirit of our Lord Jesus Christ, let both Lectors and Students strive to deepen the spiritual life even more than to cultivate letters. Thus they shall derive more profit from their studies; for without the spirit the true sense is not attained, but the mere letter which blinds and kills.

124. The students should strive, while maintaining holy poverty, never to leave the royal road which leads to heaven – holy humility. Let them often call to mind the saying of Blessed Giacapone: “Acquired knowledge without humility of heart gives a deadly wound.” It will be an occasion of humbling themselves, if they realise that they have contracted further obligations towards God, by being promoted to study and by being counted worthy to be introduced to the true and pleasing knowledge of sacred letters, under which lies hidden that Supreme Good Whose Spirit is sweet above honey to them that taste it.

125. At the beginning, and in a spirit of humility and with a contrite heart to say: “Domine, iste vilissimus servus tuus et omni bono indignus, vult ingredi ad videndum thesauros tuos. Placeat tibi ut ipsum indignissimum introducas, et des sibi in his verbis et sancta lectione tantum te diligere, quantum te cognoscere, quia nolo te cognoscere nisi ut te diligam, Domine Deus Creator meus. Amen.”

