---
title: "Chapter 10"
date: 2024-09-12
draft: false
description: ""
summary: "Of the admonition and correction of the Brothers."
tags: []
categories: []
---

(126) We ordain that the Father Vicar General shall endeavour during his term of office, to visit personally all the House and Friars of our Congregation. The Vicar Provincials shall do the same in their Provinces. They as well as the Guardians shall continually urge their subjects with all charity to the perfect observance of the divine and evangelical precepts and counsels, of the Rule they have vowed, of these present Constitutions, but especially of most high poverty, the solid foundation of all regular observance. With all humility and charity let them correct transgressors, always mingling the wine of rigorous justice with the oil of soothing mercy.

(127) And the friars who are subjects shall obey their Superiors with all humility in all things which they know are not sinful. They shall duly reverence their Superiors as vicars of St Francis and even of Christ our God. And when they are reprehended and corrected by them, let the Friars, according to the praiseworthy custom of our first and humble Fathers and Brothers, kneel and patiently endure every admonition and correction. They shall not answer in a proud manner, or, indeed, reply at all to the Superior, especially in the Chapter or refectory, unless they have first asked and obtained permission. He who does otherwise shall take the discipline publicly for the duration of a Miserere. And let all the Friars strive diligently to correct their faults; and by virtuous acts to acquire heavenly virtues, and by good habits to overcome evil inclinations. Let the Superiors beware of binding the souls of their subjects by precepts of obedience, unless they are forced to do so by religious piety or loving necessity.

(128) It is also ordained that visiting Friars shall be received with all fraternal charity. As true sons of the Eternal Father they shall visit the Church, and having made a short adoration, they shall present themselves to the Superior, showing him their obedience without which no Friar may leave our friaries. When the Friars leave the Friary for some useful purpose they shall, on leaving and returning, ask the blessing from their Superior.

(129) In order that all things be done with the merit of holy obedience and with due devotion, no Friar shall venture to take a repast, whether within or without our Friaries, without the permission and blessing of the Superior or senior Father or Brother.

(130) Let all the friars endeavour to avoid superfluous and trivial conversation; and let them not desire to visit other churches in order to gain indulgences since many Supreme Pontiffs have granted a greater number in our own churches.

(131) We also ordain that no fugitive Friar of one province shall be received into another without the written permission of the Father Vicar General. Without this permission the admission is null and void, and the receiving Vicar Provincial shall be severely punished according to the judgement of the Father Vicar General.

(132) To avoid all possible difficulties it is ordained that a Junior Friar shall not send or receive letters without the permission of the Superior.

(133) All the Friars, after the example of our Lord Jesus Christ, and of our Seraphic Father, should prefer to be subjects and to obey, rather than to be Superiors and to command others. Nevertheless, those upon whom prelacies are imposed by obedience must not be obstinate in refusing them; but with all humility and solicitude shall fulfil the ministry entrusted to them.

(134) We also exhort all the Friars, in accordance with the admonition of our Father in the tenth chapter of the Rule, to beware of all pride and vain glory, envy and avarice, of all care and solicitude about this world, of all detraction and murmuring against any person, especially Prelates, the Clergy, and Religious, particularly of our Congregation. Let us show respect to everyone according to his state, looking upon all as our Fathers and Superiors in Christ Jesus, our Saviour.
