---
title: "Chapter 11"
date: 2024-09-12
draft: false
description: ""
summary: "Let the Brothers not enter the monasteries of Nuns."
tags: []
categories: []
---

(135) According to the opinion of the holy Doctors, especially St Jerome, familiarity with women, however holy, should be prudently avoided with by the servants of God. Therefore, the entire General Chapter, with the greatest consideration and after due consultation and deliberation, have framed these present Constitutions to be observed inviolably by our entire Congregation. The Friars shall in no way nor under any pretext of doing good or promoting the sanctification of souls, or at the request of the people or of nobles, accept the charge of monasteries or other religious houses of men or women. They shall not provide them with Confessors nor have any concern about them, following the striking examples of Christ, our Saviour, and the salutary instruction of the Saints, rather than the teaching of the world.

(136) Because true religious and servants of Christ should avoid not only what is manifestly evil and sinful, but even whatever might have the appear to be so, we desire that the Friars should not frequent any convent or other houses of religious women without the permission of the Vicar Provincial. The Vicar Provincial shall take heed not to grant such permission readily to anyone but tried and mature Friars, and in cases of necessity or charity, because, as our Father St Francis used to say, God delivered us from a wife and the devil has provided us with the nuns.

(137) That clean of heart we may see God with the eye of a sincere faith and be more fitted for heavenly things, the Friars shall not have any suspicious intercourse or dealings with women, or long and unnecessary conversations with them. When obliged to speak with them, they shall remain where they can always be seen by their companion, so as to give good example to the world and everywhere be a sweet odour to Jesus Christ. They shall converse with purity, discretion and religious decorum. Let them remember the memorable example, related in our Chronicles, of that friar who burning a wisp of straw said: “What the straw gains by the fire, the same doth the religious servant of God gain by conversing with women.” Pope John XX, in the Bull of Canonization of St Louis, Bishop, one of our Friars, says of him: “So deeply rooted in heart, even from childhood, was the love of chastity, that to guard it faithfully he avoided all intercourse with women, never having spoken to any woman alone, except his mother and sister, understanding that woman is more bitter than death.” And St Bernard says that there are two things which defile and ruin religious: familiarity with women and daintiness in food.

(138) We also desire that women shall not enter into our Friaries except in case of real necessity or of extraordinary devotion, and when they cannot be refused without giving scandal. If they enter, they must always be accompanied by trustworthy men and women. Before admitting them, the approval of the Friars dwelling in the Friary must be obtained. Two mature and saintly Friars shall accompany them, always speaking of edifying subjects in Christ our Lord, and of their spiritual welfare, with all religious decorum and good example. Not only with women, but even with laymen, our intercourse should be infrequent, since undue familiarity with them is injurious to us.

